GLOSSARY

GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
It represents an area of the land with a specific meaning. There are several types of areas: street,
place, parish, town/city, district, region, country, continent, urban area, rural area, forest area, etc. A
geographical area may be part of another area.
A geographical area has location (centre of the area): GPS coordinates + altitude (polar coordinates).
Also has the actual representation of the area that, for the moment, is a rectangle centred in the area’s
centre. Areas are measured in km2.


HOUSE
A house or apartment that is to be managed. A house may include gardens and other outbuildings
that are part of the house (e.g. garage, garden shed, etc.). A house is located in a geographical area
and has an completeAddress, including ZIP code, and a GPS location.


ROOM
A part of the house that has an independent logical and possibly physical representation (e.g. kitchen,
bedroom, corridor, hall, garage, a delimited area in the basement, a section of the garden). A room
has a name, house floor and dimensions. For the sake of simplicity, it is assumed a room always have
a parallelepiped shape.
A room may have a set of owners and all devices in the room have the same set of permissions.


HOME GRID
The electrical network of the house. All devices at home are connected to the home grid, which is
connected through an energy meter and a power limiter differential circuit breaker to the public
power grid. A house may have more than one independent grids (e.g. one for the main house and
another for the garden). A room belongs only to one grid.


DEVICE
An active electrical device that consumes electricity in order to fulfil its tasks. About devices:
Every device has a name, so that the users understand its purpose, a type, a location (room)
and nominal power, i.e. the maximum power it can consume;
A device may be metered, i.e. it has a meter connected to it (e.g. a metering plug) or has an
internal meter. One cannot know the actual energy consumption of a non-metered device, so
that the device’s consumption will be an estimate based on its working profile;
A device may be switchable, i.e. it is connected to a switchable plug, a switch in the
distribution board or itself supports that functionality.
A device may be programmable, i.e. may be able to run several predefined/user defined
programs at a configurable starting hour (e.g. washing machine, dishwasher, etc.).
A device may be “self-managed”, i.e. its operation is fully based on internal decisions. That is the case
of devices that have a thermostat (e.g. water heater, fridge, etc.). Though these are autonomous,
some of these devices may be switchable.
Regarding device types, there aren’t many specific requirements at the moment, except that the use
of types should help users to understand the purpose of the device, standardize behaviours and also
simplify system development and future extension. The client has already identified the following
common types of devices that one can find at home:

• Electric water heater
o Nominal power (kW), volume of water (l), hot water temperature (°C), cold water temperature (°C), performance ratio
(typically 0.9)
o Energy consumption = C*V*dT*PR (kWh)
     C -> Specific heat of water = 1,163 Wh/kg°C
     V -> Volume of water to heat (water consumption in litres)
     Dt -> difference in temperature = hot water temperature – cold water temperature
     PR -> performance ratio (typically 0.9)

• Washing machine
o Nominal power (kW), capacity (kg), list of programs (duration, energy consumption)
o Energy consumption = energy consumption of the program (kWh)

• Dishwasher
o Nominal power (kW), capacity (in dish sets), list of programs (duration, energy consumption)
o Energy consumption = energy consumption of the program (kWh)

• Fridge
o Nominal power (kW), freezer capacity (l), refrigerator capacity (l), annual energy consumption (kWh)
o Energy consumption (daily) = annual energy consumption 1 / 365 (kWh)

• Freezer
o Nominal power (kW), freezer capacity (l), annual energy consumption (kWh)
o Energy consumption (daily) = annual energy consumption / 365 (kWh)

• Wine cooler
o Nominal power (kW), number of bottles, annual energy consumption (kWh)
o Energy consumption (daily) = annual energy consumption / 365 (kWh)

• Kettler
o Nominal power (kW), maximum volume of water (l), performance ratio
o Energy consumption = C*V*dT*PR (kWh)
     C -> Specific heat of water = 1,163 Wh/kg°C
     V -> Volume of water to heat (l)
     Dt -> difference in temperature = 100 – cold water temperature
     PR -> performance ratio (typically 0.95)

• Electric Oven
o Nominal power (kW), list of programs (nominal power of the program)
o Energy consumption = nominal power of the program * time

• Stove
o Nominal power (kW), list of programs (nominal power of the program)
o Energy consumption = nominal power of the program * time

• Microwave oven
o Nominal power (kW), list of programs (nominal power of the program)
o Energy consumption = nominal power of the program * time

• Wall electric heater

• Portable electric oil heater

• Portable electric convection heater

• Wall towel heater
o Nominal power (W)
o Energy consumption = Nominal power * time (Wh)

• Lamp
o Nominal power (W), luminous flux (lm)
o Energy consumption = Nominal power * time (Wh)

• Fan
o Nominal power (W), list of programs (nominal power of the program)
o Energy consumption = Nominal power of the program * time (Wh)

• TV
o Nominal power (W), standby power (W)
o Energy consumption = Nominal power * time (Wh)


POWER SOURCE
A power source supplies electric energy to the home grid. This may include the public electric grid,
photovoltaic panels, wind generator, batteries, etc. Some power sources may be “chargeable”, i.e. the
may be used to storage energy for later use.
power source has a maximum power output and, if it has storage capabilities, the maximum amount
of storable energy and the maximum power it can provide in continuous operation (the peak instant
power it is not relevant, for the moment).


PASSIVE HEAT SOURCE
A device that supplies or absorbs heat from a room. When designing a house, the architect should give
special care to the use of passive sources (e.g. windows) in order to reduce active energy consumption,
thus reducing the house’s carbon footprint. A house that requires little or no active heating/cooling is
called a passive house8.
Passive heat sources may be truly passive (e.g. window) or active devices with little electric energy
consumption regarding their overall heat production (e.g. window with electric blinders, ventilation fan).


SENSOR
The virtual representation of a real sensor that provides information on the house environment. Thus,
in the context of the system, a sensor is not a physical device (see above). The power consumption of
the sensors is deemed negligible.
In order to further simplify the system’s management and extension, a sensor is a virtual entity that
represents a set of operations related to a single physical quantity9 (e.g. air humidity sensor) or a
condition (e.g. presence detection). A sensor belongs either to a location in the house, i.e. a room (see
the extended room definition above) or to a geographical area (e.g. outside temperature sensor, solar
radiation sensor, etc.). Sensors in geographical areas have a location (latitude, longitude, altitude).
A sensor has a name, a start operation date, a stop operation date (optional), its readings and a type.
Some common sensor types:
• Air humidity;
• Air speed;
• Atmospheric pressure;
• Human presence;
• Light intensity;
• Solar radiation;
• Rain;
• Temperature.


USERS
Inhabitants of the house (permanent or guests) or someone who uses it regularly (e.g. house staff)
with access to the system, which must be granted by an Administrator (c.f. User Roles).

USER ROLES
 A house has at least 3 types of roles:
• Administrator, which is used only to manage the system;
• Regular users, the default user;
• Power user(s), a regular user with the ability to override all other permissions regarding regular house operation;
• Room owner(s), a regular user with “power user like” abilities in a room, but whose commands/setups can be overridden
by a power user.


ELECTRIC POWER
Instant electric power10 available at a power source or consumed by a device.

ELECTRIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION/PRODUCTION
Total amount of energy produced/consumed11 during a certain period. Energy is measured in KWh,
the basic trade unit of energy.

ENERGY PRICE
The price of 1 KWh of electric energy. The price of energy changes over time according to market
needs and the energy produced. The basic period of pricing is 15 min. Energy prices are obtained from
a service provided by the utility. Regarding energy sale prices, they may be provided by the utility or
by other services, e.g. provided by the area’s energy market.

ELECTRIC ENERGY METER
A sensor that measures the amount of electric energy that travels through it at a certain point of the
grid. By convention, energy consumption is a positive value and energy production a negative one.
Though many meters can provide almost continuous readings (e.g. one every second), there is no real
interest in that. It is assumed that the average energy consumption for a period of 5 minutes is detailed
enough for energy monitoring and consumption planning purposes. Thus, the system will receive
readings with that period. Nevertheless, this period may change in the future or even be configurable
by the Administrator.

GRID METER
An electric energy meter that measures the electric energy consumption/production of the grid
relative to the public power grid (outside). Every house has at least one.

CONTRACTED MAXIMUM POWER
The maximum electric power the public grid can provide to a house grid. This is enforced by the grid’s
power limiter circuit breaker.
