NUMBER: US080_v2

DESCRIPTION: As an Administrator, I want the data related to geographical areas (including sensors and their readings)
and to the house (including grids, rooms and sensors) to be persisted in a relational database, so that this data is
available whenever the application is running.

TEAM MEMBERS: Developer -  Joana Figueira/Sónia Silva; QA - Ricardo Araújo;

- given - The user (admin) wants the data related to geographical areas (including sensors and their readings) and to
the house (including grids, rooms and sensors) to be persisted in a relational database, so that this data is available
whenever the application is run.

- when - We can see if this user story works if, for example:
          - the user chooses option "1" from Menu (Administrator), then option "2" (Geographical Area) and then option
         "9" (Import geographical areas and sensors from JSON or XML File).
         Then User inserts the name of the file to be imported.
         He/She then chooses the option "YES" in "Do you want to import these geographic areas and their sensors? (Y/N)".
         He/She then chooses option "10" (Import readings);
         Then User inserts the name of the file to be imported and chooses the option "YES" in "Do you want to import
         these readings? (Y/N)"

         - the user chooses option "1" from Menu (Administrator), then option "1" (House) and then option "13" (Configure
          House from a file).
          Then User inserts the name of the file to be imported.
          He/She then chooses the option "YES" in "Do you want to configure the house with this information (Y/N)".
          He/She then chooses option "14" (Import house sensors);
          Then User inserts the name of the file to be imported and chooses the option "YES" in "Do you want to import
          these house sensors? (Y/N)"
          He/She then chooses option "15" (Import readings for house sensors);
          Then User inserts the name of the file to be imported and chooses the option "YES" in "Do you want to import
          these readings? (Y/N)"

After that, the user have access to the database, where the user can see the persistence data, on the link:

port: 8080
spring.h2.console.path=/h2-console
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:h2:file:~/test2;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE;AUTO_RECONNECT=TRUE

- then - If the Geographical Areas, their sensors and readings are on the database and also the House rooms, grids, sensors
and their readings, the persistence has been accomplished.

- but - If the condition mentioned above is not met, the persistence has not been accomplished.



ASSUMPTIONS:
- There is no user interaction. However, the user stories 100, 260 and 265 must implement this new functionality.
- Both user stories need to work to have persistence.

